Setting up the Minecraft Client:
1. Download, Install, and Open the CurseForge App:
	https://download.overwolf.com/install/Download?ExtensionId=cfiahnpaolfnlgaihhmobmnjdafknjnjdpdabpcm&utm_term=eyJkb21haW4iOiJjZi13ZWIifQ%3D%3D
2. Select Minecraft game and click set up folder.
3. Go to the search bar, find the "Prominence II: Hasturian Era" Modpack by ElocinDev, and click install.
4. While the modpack downloads, click on settings at the bottom left, select Minecraft, scroll down to Java Settings, and set the Allocated Memory to 8GB (8192 MB) or more.
5. After the modpack finishes downloading, hover over the modpack, and press Play.
6. The Minecraft Launcher should open. Click through the disclaimers and press play.
7. When the Minecraft instance starts, go to multiplayer, add the server with the server's IP address (refer to below), and press Join Server



Openning the Server:
1. Go to AWS Console Link:
	https://ap-southeast-5.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=ap-southeast-5#Instances:
2. Select IAM user and fill in the provided credentials.
3. In the EC2 Instances page, select the Minecraft server, right click, and click Start instance. If it's open, then there is no need to start it again.
4. At the window below, copy the Public IPv4 address. This is the IP address of the server once it starts up.
5. To play in the server, boot up the Minecraft client with the appropriate version and mods, go to multiplayer, add the server using the server address, and press join.
6. Once finished playing, the server should shut down some time after all players leave (5 mins). To be safe, please go back to the EC2 Instances page and see that the Minecraft server's Instance state says Stopped after the set time. If it still hasn't stopped, follow Step 3 but click Stop instance (failure to do so might incur cost).



Changing Server Resources (and Money):
1. Depending on how many people are playing, it is possible to change the server's machine specifications, AKA instance type, to save on resources and money. The recomendation is 8 GB RAM if there are 4 or less players, and 16 GB otherwise.
2. To change the server's machine specifications, follow until Step 3 of Openning the Server, make sure the server is shut down, click on Instance Settings, then Change instance type. If the server is running, coordinate with the online players if they'd like to change the instance type.
3. In the new page, the server's current instance type is written, and it is possible to select a new instance type to change to. There are 2 main instance types to note of: c7g.xlarge (8 GB RAM) and c7g.2xlarge (16 GB RAM). Based on how many players are playing, select the appropriate instance type with enough RAM.
4. After searching and selecting the new instance type, check the Instance type comparison to see everything is in order, then scroll down and press Change instance type. Once it is done proceed with normally Openning the Server.



If you have any questions, please contact the System Admin.
